# Hostile computing

Current technology is **hostile** by default.

Twitter - x , bombards you with disinformation, attempts at viral reaction, to boost monetization. Bad incentives. Distract from what you want to follow,
with "discoverability" resembling nothing of your interests.

ChatGPT or the variety brainwashes the user into false perception of computer cognition, feeding them contradictory or incorrect information. 

Cookies
Tracking cookies are hostile to user. You are asked to give your personal information, location, browsing history to 500 different ad-tech companies, each worse than the last.
Do you accept?

Ads - audio full blast, autoplay, disregard for user and everyone around them, forcibly pushed content, enshittified platforms thinning the content, slowing down your device, wasting bandwidth.
Sometimes even serving malware. 

Operating system . Your poprietary OS tries to herd you into "feel good" vibes of ustainable and socially responsible computing, while tracking all of your searches,
funelling users into insecure browser and search engine, serving you news directly into your taskbar, distracting you with product notifications, friendly suggestions, and AI generated news articles.

"awareness" - to be able to whitstand a sophisticated attack on user, one has to be familiar with how websites, filesystems, operating systems , networks, social engineering, internet and specific services work
It is insane to expect a user to train and retain that knowledge from binary pass-fail spot the phish emails. This is even worse in corporate environments, where every 
person should know that they are protecting a fragile one-misconfig-dooms-us-all systems, that are still standing only because of constant human intervention and timely response from SOC teams.

It's not feasible to close this literacy gap.

Veteran users are numb to this bombardment and grown accustomed. But younger generation is thrown into the pit of social media, attention span destorying apps and behaviours, inscrutable 
systems. 

Your phone - needs defanging out of the box. 40 Apps you dont need. 
