In my previous post about manufacturing security I gave an overview of security challenges and complexities of the industry.

So how do we go about solving these challenges in a productive manner?

Ideally we want a standard to help us out to define our goals and targets.

Security organizations often face the question:

How do we know our security requirements?


Can there be too much security?
Security is an ever-developing field with hundreds of different security products adressing different problems. 
(insert security vendor map )
https://www.optiv.com/sites/default/files/images/Cybersecurity-Technology-Map-Web-min.png

Sometimes organizations can fall into a trap of endlessly acquiring different security tools for problems they do not fully master, because more tooling = more security. And while this problem solves itself after a while, it is not without financial consequences. 
Vendor sprawl incurs major costs, security controls slow down development, and newly implemented rules do not reflect the real-world environment, dragging out validation.

Security Governance ALWAYS calls for more control and friction, versus engineers providing capabilities and features as fast as possible.

Fortunately there are some standards designed to provide a structured approach to industrial security, the most well-known being IEC-62443.
IEC-62443 is a solid standard providing security levels, requirements tied to meeting those levels and detailed descriptions. 

Where ISO-27001 can be vague or overly broad, IEC-62443-3-3 details exact controls that need to be implemented, according to security levels, that you can implement into your backlog, or test your system against.



4-1
Policy, documentation, actionable policies , i.e incident reporting to involved parties such as customers. Concerns development lifecycle

4-2    - 3-2 product security requirements
Product, list of security requirements. 

Documentation 
Policy, proccess , artifacts. 

Actionable security requirements 
Comparable to OWASP ASVS 





So you want an IEC 62443 



Hardware and Software team alignment

Stakeholder buy-in   it's all about culture. 




1. Establish security context inherent to the company.
Pharma? Aero? Manufacturing? Energy?
Enterprise networks - distributed, site specific, secure sites, remote locations.

?. Asses the security level of target system. 

https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/

Paved roads...

https://eqqn.github.io/2023/01/04/Security_in_manufacturing.html
